# Seatrout_Scripts

## A compilation of scripts that I used to quantify variation in age, growth, and recruitment of an economically valuable species in Florida.

## _View the markdown file (with extensions .md) accompanying each script to see a detailed description of my analyses and some results._ 

## The abstract from the peer-reviewed journal article detailing my research:
Spotted Seatrout Cynoscion nebulosus in Florida, USA, are managed under four geographical regions, including Apalachicola Bay and Cedar Key (the northwest region), Tampa Bay and Charlotte Harbor (the southwest region), northeast Florida (the northeast region), and the northern Indian River Lagoon (the southeast region). Two of these management regions are composed of more than one major estuary system (northwest and southwest regions). However, previous life history research suggests the management regions do not accurately reflect the unique biological populations of Spotted Seatrout in Florida. Our objective was to determine whether there is significant spatial variation in size structure, the age-length relationship, and recruitment patterns among populations of Spotted Seatrout in Florida and, further, whether there is agreement in these life-history parameters among estuary populations comprising individual management regions. We used long-term fishery-independent and fishery-dependent data sets on recruitment, age, and size structure among six estuaries and the four management regions. Recruitment patterns of young-of-the-year and the length-at-age relationship over all ages differed significantly among estuarine populations (areas) and within management regions. Additionally, all areas differed significantly in length distributions of Spotted Seatrout caught by the recreational fishery. Our results highlight the need to understand the relative contributions of estuary-specific data to regional assessment models if the four-region boundary scheme for Florida is continued. Moreover, as variation in growth and recruitment among areas likely reflects area-specific environmental conditions, we suggest that environmental variables be considered in future assessments and management of this recreationally valuable species.  
